---
layout: post
title: Mark Pesce loves his Meraki mesh
created: 1191097289
---
Australia, <a href="http://freethenet.com/">San Francisco</a>, <a href="http://vancouver.freethenet.ca/">Vancouver</a> - an eternal golden braid or should I say mesh :-) ?<br /> From <a href="http://blog.futurestreetconsulting.com/?p=39">hyperpeople &raquo; Blog Archive &raquo; Mob Rules (The Law of Fives)</a>:  <p><strong>QUOTE</strong></p> <blockquote>   Four months ago, a small startup in Silicon Valley named Meraki (Greek for &ldquo;doing it with love&rdquo;) for unveiled a cute little device, a wireless router that they simply named the Mini. Inside it has a RISC CPU running a custom version of LINUX which handles all of the routing tasks. That&rsquo;s where it gets interesting. You see, Meraki have pioneered a new technology known as &ldquo;wireless mesh networking&rdquo;. You can power up a Mini in anywhere you like, and if there&rsquo;s another Mini within distance &ndash; and these devices can reach nearly half a kilometer, outdoors &ndash; it will connect to it, share routing information, and route packets from one to another &ndash; all without any need to configure anything at all. Add another, and another, and another, and all of a sudden you&rsquo;ve created a very wide area WiFi network. Only one of the Minis needs to be connected to the Internet as a gateway; the others will find it and route traffic through it. The Minis are small &ndash; and they&rsquo;re also cheap. For just $49 dollars US, you can order one complete with an Australian wall wart. That&rsquo;s cheaper than most access points out there, and because of the mesh networking, it does a whole lot more. </blockquote> <p><strong>END QUOTE</strong></p> 
