---
layout: post
title: ecto3 alpha - doesn't recognize new categories
created: 1188185136
---
<p>Really looking forward to ecto3&#39;s new WYSIWYG editor that supports nested lists. I tried ecto3 in the last <a href="/rt/archives/2007/08/26/n800-skype-wifi-great-telco-long-distance-route-around">2</a> <a href="/rt/archives/2007/08/27/the-internet-does-not-revolve-around-the-telcos-billing-engine">posts</a> (using the MovableType settings for my Drupal site) but I can&#39;t use it because it doesn&#39;t recognize new categories added on the server side and new categories on the ecto 3 alpha client don&#39;t show up on the Drupal server side.</p> <p>I&#39;ll report my findings to the support forum and monitor the situation. Once the bugs are shaken out, it looks like a great new release (many new features coming e.g. the ability to type a few characters and whittle down my 794 categories rocks for example!). Go Adriaan go!</p>From <a href="http://infinite-sushi.com/software/ecto/news/2007/08/ecto3_alpha.php">infinite-sushi.com - ecto3 alpha</a>:  <p><strong>QUOTE</strong></p> <blockquote>   First of all, ecto3 is not ecto2. </blockquote> <blockquote>   ... </blockquote> <blockquote>   .One of the biggest changes is that ecto3 has a new rich text editor, one that is based on Apple&#39;s very own Editable WebKit. It allowed me to do the nested list above. It does the job far better than ecto2, but it&#39;s not perfect yet. More than 3500 lines of code interface between the GUI editor and WebKit to make it work for blogging. </blockquote> <blockquote>   ... </blockquote> <blockquote>   .So far, ecto3 has support for MovableType, WordPress and Blogger. There&#39;s a custom version of the MovableType plugin for Conversant, a Vox plugin is on the way, as well as a plugin that will use the old Blogger API for some of the blog systems around that haven&#39;t gone with the times. This basically means that people using MovableType, WordPress or Blogger are the best candidates for playing with this alpha version, for now. </blockquote> <p><strong>END QUOTE</strong></p> 
