---
layout: post
title: Six travel scholarships of CAN $500 to come to Northern Voice 2007
created: 1169503605
---
<p><strong>UPDATE</strong>: For those who are academically &quot;challenged&quot; like myself, you&nbsp; don&#39;t need high grades in school or anything academic like that. It&#39;s all about contributions, need, a high quality&nbsp; blog post, video blog or podcast and diversity! </p><p>According to <a href="http://dictionary.reference.com/">dictionary.com</a>, <a href="http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/bursary">bursary</a> is &quot;British English&quot;! Is this true? For those who are British English challenged, a  bursary is the same as a  scholarship. We&#39;ve received several interesting applications already! <a href="http://2007.northernvoice.ca/nvbursary/submit">Apply today</a> and see you in February! </p><p> From <a href="http://2007.northernvoice.ca/news/2007/01/12/get-a-travel-bursary-for-northern-voice">Get a Travel Bursary for Northern Voice | Northern Voice 2007</a>: </p><p> <strong>QUOTE</strong> </p><blockquote> This year Northern Voice is offering six travel bursaries of CAN $500 each. The organizing committee will be awarding these bursaries based on a number of criteria, including: <br /> <br />* The contributions you can make to the conference <br />* Your level of need <br />* The quality of your submission <br />* The diversity you might bring to Northern Voice <br /> <br />We&rsquo;ll announce the recipients of the bursaries on February 2nd, 2007. The bursaries will be paid out via cheque mailed out to recipients or picked up on the day of the conference. <br /> <br />To apply, write a blog post, or record a podcast or video blog post describing why you want to come to Northern Voice. Then submit it via our travel bursaries page. </blockquote><p> <strong>UNQUOTE</strong> </p>
