---
layout: post
title: 'Nokia: please build Christian Lindholm''s Transformer Mobile OS around an
  open source core'
created: 1178628593
---
<p> Awesome <a href="http://www.christianlindholm.com/christianlindholm/2007/05/my_speech_at_me.html#more">vision</a> (<a href="/rt/tags/lifeblog">I am not a fan of Lifeblog</a> (his previous vision) but I am fan of Christian! And of course I am a fan of Series 60 which was one of Christian&#39;s first visions!). Go Christian go! Wouldn&#39;t it be cool if Christian Lindholm built this OS at a startup around an open source core like Linux and wouldn&#39;t it be cool if Nokia bought that OS and used it on future phones? This would blow the iPhone out of the water.  In the long run, this is what has to be done if the iPod-ization of mobile phones is to be avoided IMHO (but hey I could be wrong :-) !) </p><p> FROM <a href="http://www.christianlindholm.com/christianlindholm/2007/05/my_speech_at_me.html#more">ChristianLindholm.com: My speech at MEX, The SW Transformer A Vision for a mobile OS</a>: </p><p> <strong>QUOTE</strong> </p><blockquote> I was asked by Marek Pawlowski from PMM to give a keynote at the MEX conference, a small mobile user experience conference. It is great small conference with key people in mobile user experience. <br /> <br />My brief for the talk was this manifesto: <br /> <br />&quot;Manifesto point #4: <br /> <br />Handsets, applications and services should be more aware of the user&#39;s physical environment and adapt to provide the most appropriate interface for sound and visual conditions. We think multi-modal interfaces should be supported on many more mobile devices and can dramatically improve the user experience.&quot; <br /> <br />Summary: <br /> <br />We are at a stage where a new mobile operating system should be created. One that enables the creation of a cheap monoblock enabling best of breed convergence of mobility and computing. I envision an OS that morphs to accommodate both moving use and mobile use. Focused use and multi-tasking. I call it a Transformer OS. <br /> <br />One way to think of this is to think of RSS in terms of comand. Each command or feature in the user experience is wrapped into a meta language of context. This language of context will drive the use cases and the rendering. We do not only separate funtion and presentation we make function and context interdependant. <br /> <br />With such an operating system we would tear down classic application boundaries: like calling, camera, idle, and calendar into a fluid dynamic environment. The operating system is broader than the footprint of the silicon. It extends into the environment and the network. <br /> <br />I think this kind of device and system could be a massive hit in emerging markets where they choose a mobile before they buy a computer.  </blockquote><p> <strong>END QUOTE</strong> </p>
