---
layout: post
title: 12 hours with Rogers N95 8GB NAM - Get an unlocked one instead!
created: 1212380347
---
<p>After 12 hours with a borrowed Rogers N95 8GB NAM, my conclusion is still to get an unlocked one! </p><p>In short, the Rogers N95 8GB NAM is:</p> <ol>   <li>The Multimedia creator phone that N series users the world over have learned to love. Great camera and great video!</li>    <li>The S60 interface we have come to love/hate which is hard to use as all N series aficionados know.</li>    <li>Rogers has put their bogus &quot;deck&quot; in the web browser and Vision software on their version of N95 8GB NAM and it&#39;s just as suspected, unusable and totally superfluous. Change the home page and don&#39;t use the Vision app; none of it&#39;s any good!</li>    <li>It&#39;s the Rogers Data plan that we have all come to love. Danny who set up the phone, was told by a Rogers CSR he could get a 1GB data plan for $100/month which contradicts the <a href="http://saunderslog.com/2008/05/02/drinking-in-the-police-with-nokias-n95/">$65/month 1GB PC Card plan that Alec Saunders got from Rogers</a>. Inconsistencies &#39;r Rogers! Or is it a deliberate attempt to confuse customers by telling different customers different stories about data plans?</li>  </ol> <p>My conclusion remains the same:<a href="http://www.rolandtanglao.com/archives/2008/05/10/howard-chui-rogers-uses-deep-packet-inspection-data-plans-incredibly-limiting"> get an unlocked N95 8GB NAM and a $65/month PC Card plan</a>. You&#39;ll be a lot less frustrated!</p>   <p>Some more details after the jump</p> <!--break--> <ol>   <li>Memory Full when running Fring. Ah S60 memory manaegement, this shouldn&#39;t happen ever!</li>    <li>Fit and Finish seem much better than my N95-1</li>    <li>Doesn&#39;t seem crippled in any way in terms of adding apps or wifi</li>    <li>Lots of access points: GoRogers, Media, Rogers Internet, Streaming - I am sure this confuses customers to no end!</li>    <li>3G *is* much faster (no surprise) but slower than WiFi</li>    <li>Rogers &quot;Home Page&quot; aka &quot;deck&quot; is aweful as I expected; give me the internet</li>    <li>App Manager Shows:</li>    <li>     <ol>       <li>Music Player</li>        <li>Fring (only app installed by the customer of this phone)</li>        <li>Fifa07 Demo</li>        <li>APSServer v2</li>        <li>Google Search</li>        <li>Asphalt3</li>        <li>Google Maps</li>        <li>Block Breaker Del</li>        <li>Wheel of Fortune</li>        <li>Mail by Google</li>        <li>Midnight Pool</li>        <li>Gmail</li>        <li>WPT Hold Em</li>        <li>Mobile email</li>        <li>Rogers on Demand</li>        <li>YouTube</li>        <li>Street Fighter</li>        <li>Mobile TV</li>        <li>Vision App</li>     </ol>   </li> </ol> 
