---
layout: post
title: " Nokia N97- finally a decent looking competitor to the iPhone!"
created: 1228224539
---
<p>Or at least it appears to. The N97 proof is in the pudding which is the user experience including hardware and software (skeptical about S60 but willing to be convinced), but at first glance appears to be great. Hope it's both North American and European 3G and available in Canada officially soon! I trust it has lots of RAM and will run ShoZu, Qik and viNes in short order! Vive la competitiion! Go Nokia go!</p> <p><strong>QUOTE</strong> [From <a href="http://www.darlamack.com/darlamack/2008/12/nokia-n97---the.html"><cite>Nokia N97 - The Nseries Dream Device: Nokia S60 News and Reviews</cite></a>]</p> <blockquote><p>So what makes this Nokia's Dream Device? The N97 is the first Nseries device with QWERTY keyboard!!!!! Now thats not the only thing that makes this a dream device... and let me just state that the endearing term "dream device" is solely based on my own initial impression and opinion of the device.</p></blockquote> <p><strong>END QUOTE</strong></p> <p><strong><span style="font-weight: normal"><strong>QUOTE</strong> [From <a href="http://www.atmasphere.net/wp/archives/2008/12/02/meet-the-nokia-n97-the-new-nseries-flagship"><cite>Meet the Nokia N97 - The New Nseries Flagship!</cite></a>]</span></strong></p> <blockquote><p><strong>On first glance the N97 compares to the 5800 in size and seems like it&rsquo;s older brother &hellip; until you slide the keyboard out and realize you&rsquo;ve got an altogether new breed in hand. While it&rsquo;s not a small device, the N97 feels great in your hand and can easily be used while walking without needing two hands in most cases. The virtual keyboards (numbers and T9) were clear and the softkeys seemed eas to access for quick data entry. Of course for larger text needs a quick flip and you&rsquo;ve got a real keyboard at your disposal. Weight (Approx. 150 g) felt semi-comparable to the E71 and in the front pocket of my jeans it was not in any way uncomfortable.</strong></p></blockquote> <p><strong><strong>END QUOTE</strong></strong></p> <p><strong>QUOTE</strong> [From <a href="http://scobleizer.com/2008/12/02/nokia-n97-the-ultimate-facebook-device/"><cite>Scobleizer &mdash; Tech geek blogger &raquo; Blog Archive Nokia N97: the ultimate Facebook device &laquo;</cite></a>]</p> <blockquote><p>Nokia just announced the N97. I got a chance to play with it last night and realized they have built the ultimate Facebook device. Now, I&rsquo;m sure, lots of you will wonder how it compares to the iPhone. Well, for a Facebook user it isn&rsquo;t even close: the new Nokia device wins hands down. Why? Let&rsquo;s compare:</p> <p>1. It does 16:9 video. The iPhone doesn&rsquo;t even do video. So, how can you go to a Daft Punk concert and record it to taunt your friends?<br /> 2. It has a 5 megapixel camera. The iPhone only has 2, and the quality isn&rsquo;t even close. The camera also has a dual LED flash, so you can take pictures in the dark where the iPhone can&rsquo;t.<br /> 3. I can type three Facebook status messages on the N97&rsquo;s nice QWERTY keybord in the time that I can type two on the iPhone.<br /> 4. It does copy and paste, so you can copy URLs to send to your friends. The iPhone can&rsquo;t do that.<br /> 5. It has replaceable batteries so you can charge up three batteries and Facebook for days, while the iPhone needs to be hooked back up to the wall for recharging after a few hours.<br /> 6. The GPS device does turn-by-turn and has a built in compass, so you&rsquo;ll get to your parties faster than with the iPhone, which doesn&rsquo;t have a compass and doesn&rsquo;t do turn-by-turn.</p> <p>OK, so how else does it compare to the iPhone? It has a touch screen, with a cool customizeable home screen. You can add a Facebook component and can drag and drop different components with your finger. You can also use gestures so you can &ldquo;flick&rdquo; through your photos. That part is very similar to the iPhone, so you can see that Steve Jobs had a big influence on the user experience.</p> <p>The device itself has only one button and you can see Jonathan Ives&rsquo; challenge taken up all over the device. Close your eyes and touch the device and you don&rsquo;t feel buttons or other things protuding. Smooth.</p></blockquote> <p><strong>END QUOTE</strong></p> <p><strong><br /> </strong></p> <!--extended-->
