---
layout: post
title: Adobe Light Room 2.0 Public Beta - Great 2nd monitor support & keyboard shortcuts
  but needs localized adjustment preview
created: 1207528445
---
<p>I am running the Lightroom 2.0 Public Beta and like what I see so far. I love the dual monitor support and the many many keyboard shortcuts (e.g. &#39;&lt;&#39; and &#39;&gt;&#39; to cycle through basic adjustments in develop, &#39;;&#39; to reset the adjustment, plus/minus to make the adjustments go up and down and command/control f11 to toggle the the second monitor on and off). Haven&#39;t tried the localized adjustment too much; initially it&#39;s a bit confusing to me because it doesn&#39;t have a preview, otherwise the fantastic <a href="http://www.computer-darkroom.com/lightroom_2_beta/lr-2-beta.htm">what&#39;s new in Lightroom instructions by Ian Lyons</a> are very helpful. Looking forward to the upcoming Lightroom 2.0 videos from <a href="http://luminous-landscape.com/">Michael Reichmann</a> . It&#39;s non production-quality but I don&#39;t see any reason for early adopter enthusiastic amateurs like myself not to try it out.</p>From <a href="http://www.computer-darkroom.com/lightroom_2_beta/lr-2_2.htm"><cite>Adobe Photoshop Lightroom Public Beta</cite></a>:  <p><strong>QUOTE</strong></p> <blockquote>   <p>As a result of user feedback the engineers have enhanced the Basic adjustment panel so that it&#39;s now possible to cycle through the controls using either the comma &#39;&lt; &#39;or period &#39;&gt;&#39; keys. The keyboard &#39;+/-&#39; keys now increase/decrease the active control, and larger adjustments can be obtained by holding down the &#39;Shift&#39; key when holding down the &#39;+/-&#39; keys. Tapping the semi-colon &#39;;&#39; key resets the active control to its default value.</p>    <p>The Clarity control can now be adjusted for negative values, which has the effect of softening images. This particular feature is likely to be ore useful when applied as a local correction brush than globally.</p> </blockquote> <p><strong>END QUOTE</strong></p> 
