---
layout: post
title: E75 Review Part 1 - Gravity Rocks, still the same old frustrating S60 issues
  like "Create WLAN connection in offline mode"
created: 1269238817
---
<p>A while back I thought I lost my N82. In my panic I tweeted about the horror of using the iPhone 3G's camera (I love iPhone apps but hate the camera!) and the nice folks at WOMWORLD Nokia offered to lend me an E75 with a QWERTY keyboard and 3.2 megapixel camera until I bought an N82 replacement.</p><p>Fortunately I found the N82 but by then I had the E75 (thanks to Tom Hall of WOMWORLD Nokia!)</p><p>So this will be an abbreviated series of stream of consciousness reviews</p><ol><li>I actually like the E75 form factor. It's light and thin! And the slide is nice</li><li>Gravity rocks on it. Best Twitter client on any mobile platform. Only limited by the small screen.</li><li>The screen doesn't have enough pixels! (320x240 belongs in the dustbin of history :-) certainly doesn't belong on a "business" phone like the E75 that was introduced in spring of 2009!) So Gravity and other heavy text and graphics based apps like the web browser suffer</li><li>S60 <span style="text-decoration: line-through;">5th</span> 3rd edition shall we say is "long in the tooth". I am not going to repeat my past anti-S60 whingeing (e.g. <a href="http://rolandtanglao.com/archives/2009/07/22/n97-review-cant-recommend-it-others-i-would-buy-one-with-my-own-money">N97 S60 whingeing</a>) :-) Suffice to say that anachronistic unusable error messages&nbsp; like"Create WLAN connection in offline mode?" abound. As well as the many other S60 issues (e.g. the antiquated web browser, c'mon Nokia, put a modern Web Kit browser on the E75 via a software update, please!)</li><li>The camera is decent. Far better than the iPhone (and the E71) but not nearly as good as the N82 which shows you that Nokia is still ahead of Apple (but for how much longer?) - check out my e75 photos: http://www.flickr.com/photos/roland/tags/e75photo/</li></ol><p>&nbsp;</p>
