---
layout: post
title: "Act as if You’re Really There"
---
[Discovered](http://rolandtanglao.com/2020/07/29/p1-blogthis-checkvist-list-links-to-blog/): Nov 11, 2020. [Act as if You’re Really There](https://onezero-medium-com.cdn.ampproject.org/c/s/onezero.medium.com/amp/p/3e6e38dc4d1a) <-- Douglas Rushkoff via Rob Cottingham  on LinkedIn
"When they talk, I ask them to repeat their name, where they’re from, where they work…and nod gently. I make sure they know I hear them. And then I take a moment to consider the question — as if I’m pondering this in real time — which I damn well should be. The more remote your presence, the more live and improvisational you need to be."
"To that end, get a real webcam, a couple of scoop lights or clamp lamps (use one at a slight angle in front of you to light your face, the other from the side or slightly behind you for definition), and a real microphone. When connecting through technology, the tech you’re using matters. More resolution of your picture and sound means more subtlety and flavor. More of you."
" Sit back, showing your head and shoulders, at the very least, with your eyes always three-quarters high in the frame, which imitates the position of the eyes in your face. It’s better to cut off the top of your head than to leave lots of room above it."
". For instance, use a microphone, not a headset, to look and feel more human. If you have a script to read, put it in text in a big font, and slide the document’s window as close to the camera as possible. Leave a bunch of blank lines at the bottom, so you can scroll down like a teleprompter and keep the text you’re reading way up at the top. But really, don’t read if you can help it." <--- i disagree about the headset, a headset is best for most people unless they are willing to invest in a great microphone AND great bluetooth ear buds like AirPods Pro
