---
layout: post
title: "Living at the speed of spiders - Relevant Information"
---
[Discovered](http://rolandtanglao.com/2020/07/29/p1-blogthis-checkvist-list-links-to-blog/): Dec 9, 2023 09:52 [Living at the speed of spiders - Relevant Information](https://a-blog-with.relevant-information.com/posts/living_at_the_speed_of_spiders/) <-- I agree that you need to walk a neighbourhood not just bicycle through it to really experience it!!! And driving through a neighbourhood give you only a very small experience of the places you drive through. RTWT --> **QUOTE**: `My experience at least is much richer than that. I recently visited a place where it was very common to travel both on foot or by car. When I was walking it struck me that all the cars were going really fast, much faster than I was used to, and it felt unsafe to cross the streets. But when I travelled by taxi it felt different, or rather, nothing stood out to me. It might just be that I can’t drive, but I didn’t get the sense that the cars went too fast at all. I think there is a real asymmetry here, in that the speeds at which you feel safe in depends on if it is you who has the speed or something else. This is something I’ve sensed when I’m going by bike as well, because I’ve been guilty of maneuvers that felt safe to me but not the pedestrians around me. ... I think this asymmetry is greater when cars are involved because cars deprive the drivers of their senses and puts them in a protective metal cage, whereas the pedestrian is unprotected against both the physical mass of the car and the noise it makes. Waiting to cross the street at a red light is a great example of this, since both car drivers and pedestrians know that it is (reasonably) safe.as long as the pedestrians don’t cross the road The difference is that for the car driver it feels safe, but the pedestrian has to calm their body reacting to dozens of really big, really loud, really fast beasts charging at you every second. This also explains why it seems that so many cars drive at high speeds even if there are bicyclists and pedestrians around. It feels safe for them to do so.`
