---
layout: post
title: "Archetypes Revisited — Roden Newsletter Archive"
---
[Discovered](http://rolandtanglao.com/2020/07/29/p1-blogthis-checkvist-list-links-to-blog/): Jan 13, 2023 08:06 [Archetypes Revisited — Roden Newsletter Archive](https://craigmod.com/roden/075/) <-- Classic amazing craigmod writing. Read the whole thing! --> QUOTE: `I’ve (accidentally, bumblingly) found the fastest way to “level up” my own “quality” of self (that is, to self-elevate into a higher plane of Good Archetypicalness, to strengthen my own backbone) is through parenting. I had the tremendous privilege of being a father figure to a kid for a few of these previous years, and nothing made me “better” or more “mature” or more “inspired to crack open the world” for someone than interacting with this kid. The experience is difficult to capture in words; parenting truly is a bizarre short circuit of the brain, like a wormhole into otherwise inaccessible portions of the mind. In this way, parents who have an abundance of life force and time and mental space are “blessed” in the literal meaning of the word — that is, they are promoted, like gods to their children, and have the power to establish the healthy parameters of life and possibility. There were weeks where it’d just be me and this kid, and the conversations we had — lord, talk about expanding. I felt the edges of my own universe fly out as I witnessed the kid’s own sense of spaciousness swell in their eyes. Given a single day I could teach this tiny human more than my father did in his entire life. No one has ever added more of a sense of value or self-worth to my life than this child. Five years ago, nothing in this paragraph would have made sense to me.`
