---
layout: post
title: "The Friedman Archives Blog: AI: The Alarmists are Worried about the Wrong Thing"
---
[Discovered](http://rolandtanglao.com/2020/07/29/p1-blogthis-checkvist-list-links-to-blog/): Mar 15, 2023 11:07 [The Friedman Archives Blog: AI: The Alarmists are Worried about the Wrong Thing](https://friedmanarchives.blogspot.com/2023/01/ai-alarmists-are-worried-about-wrong.html) <-- Friedman's an optimist that lawyers can/will stop the excesses of today's "AI". --> Read the whole thing! QUOTE: `But unlike a human decision maker, you can actually prove that these machine learning algorithms are biased.  Take the code and run a bunch of sample data through it and you can demonstrate in front of a judge that the algorithm makes skewed and potentially unfair decisions. ...So what’s my next business idea?  Start a law firm that specializes in suing so-called “AI” companies that are wrongly denying people access to essential resources or services.  Provide a modicum of accountability for an industry that lacks it, and restore a semblance of fairness to those people who play by the rules.  I’m starting Round A of angel investment funding now.  Who's in?...This is the latest of many examples where the engineers invent something cool (without adequate consideration of the potential negative consequences), and the bureaucrats blissfully mis-apply it as a cool cost-saving measure.  And we all pay the price.  Right about now, this is where the lawyers step in and save us from irresponsible deployment of an immature technology. ...Once my proposed solution is deployed (either by me or someone else), in about 10 years all of these AI biases will be exposed and repaired, resulting in automated decisions that are actually fairer than what a human would do.`
