---
layout: post
title: "Ducky Sherwood:: oral minocycline significantly helped 89% of long COVID patients 2024-12-07 General – Pandemics in British Columbia"
---
[Discovered](http://rolandtanglao.com/2020/07/29/p1-blogthis-checkvist-list-links-to-blog/): Dec 11, 2024 23:55 [Ducky Sherwood:: oral minocycline significantly helped 89% of long COVID patients 2024-12-07 General – Pandemics in British Columbia](https://covidbc.webfoot.com/2024/12/07/2024-12-07-general/) <-- **QUOTE**: `⭐ ❗❗This paper from Japan (2024-12-02) reported that oral minocycline significantly helped 89% of long COVID patients in what was effectively a big case study, especially when given in the first six months. There was improvement in fatigue, post-exertional malaise, unrefreshing sleep, brain fog, disequilibrium, orthostatic intolerance, and neuropathic pain. (Minocycline is an antibiotic, but also has a number of protective effects on neurons.)` <- Read the whole thing! Need more studies!

## Caveats again quoting Ducky

Oral minocycline does frequently give unpleasant levels of nausea and/or dizziness, so it’s not an ideal medicine. Also please note that
*  Not everyone was helped;
* People who had ME/CFS for longer were helped less;
* This was not a randomized trial — there was no control group, so partly this might be placebo effect.
* These weren’t the sickest Long COVID patients: people had to be able to stand and walk (and, it appears, to come to a hospital) in order to participate in the study.
* Most of the improvement was in people who had Long COVID for less than six months, so maybe they would have recovered on their own.
However, it is encouraging news!
