---
layout: post
title: "Dungeons &amp; Dragons taught me how to write alt text – Eric Bailey"
---
[Discovered](http://rolandtanglao.com/2020/07/29/p1-blogthis-checkvist-list-links-to-blog/): Jul 22, 2024 07:17 [Dungeons &amp; Dragons taught me how to write alt text – Eric Bailey](https://ericwbailey.website/published/dungeons-and-dragons-taught-me-how-to-write-alt-text/) --> Most important thing FIRST in alt text! --> **QUOTE**: `Another reason why I advocate for describing the most important thing first is because of how screen readers announce alt text. A screen reader will read it in a linear order, starting from the first word in the string and ending with the last. ... Unlike other web content, there isn’t really any other special way screen readers can work with alt text strings—short of increasing or decreasing the speaking rate. This is also why things like bolding, italicizing, links, and paragraphs aren’t allowed. ... Another important thing to know about screen readers is that they have dedicated keyboard commands to make them pause or stop announcing. There are a few use cases for this behavior, but the most common one is, “Yup, I got it. Shut up now.” ... Placing helpful, but ultimately non-critical information after the most important thing lets the person using the screen reader decide when they know enough to get what they need. It also saves them from wasting time re-listening to superfluous information if re-navigating to the image to glean some important detail (“Oh, what was the subject of that painting again?”).`Ç`
