---
layout: post
title: "Why Speech to Intent is so Vital for Voice « Pete Warden's blog"
---
[Discovered](http://rolandtanglao.com/2020/07/29/p1-blogthis-checkvist-list-links-to-blog/): Nov 24, 2024 06:20 [Why Speech to Intent is so Vital for Voice « Pete Warden's blog](https://petewarden.com/2024/11/14/why-speech-to-intent-is-so-vital-for-voice/) <-- LOL. "Long voice interface winter" :-) ! When does it end? 2025? 2030? **QUOTE**: `When I first tried ChatGPT, it blew my mind. Its ability to respond intelligently to almost any prompt I gave it was astonishing, it was obvious to me it was the future. It seemed like we’d finally built the kind of AI we’ve all seen in the movies. Over time though, one big limitation became clear – they’re all talk and no action. By that I mean they’re fantastic for anything that requires generating text, but persuading them to make something happen is a lot harder. For example, we can now build a model that could have a natural conversation with a person, just like HAL 9000, but if you ask it to open the pod bay doors, there’s no easy way to connect the LLM’s output to those doors’ controls. ... The challenge of converting something somebody said into an action is known as the “speech to intent” problem in the research world. ... This is why I’m so excited to be working on this problem. We’ve been suffering through a long voice interface winter, but almost all of the ingredients are in place to make speech work. If we can persuade LLMs to turn their words into deeds, then we’ll be finally be able to talk to machines like we can to people, and I think that will be glorious.`
