---
layout: post
title: "Irene Y. Zhang: The Moral Implications of Being a Moderately Successful Computer Scientist and a Woman"
---
[Discovered](http://rolandtanglao.com/2020/07/29/p1-blogthis-checkvist-list-links-to-blog/): Nov 27, 2024 00:11 [Irene Y. Zhang: The Moral Implications of Being a Moderately Successful Computer Scientist and a Woman](https://irenezhang.net/blog/2024/07/24/misogyny.html) <-- read the whole thing --> **QUOTE**: `I recently reached a few high points in my career that coincided, not coincidentally, with some of the worst harassment of my life. It made me reflect on how my career has been defined as much in terms of misogyny as technical excellence (I’ve garnered quite a CV in both), and how I have struggled to explain to others my experience. This blog post builds on previous work, like Kathryn McKinley’s seminal post [1] and on Kate Manne’s books Down Girl [2] and Entitled [3], which frame misogyny through the lens of moral philosophy.   ... Kate defines misogyny as the enforcement branch of the patriarchy. While sexism is a set of beliefs, misogyny is a set of actions. As such, it is much more damaging to women. Worse, misogyny enforces a patriarchical worldview that the majority of the world holds as the morally correct one. Thus, when women break this norm (i.e., by demanding authority, recognition, space and not providing goods that men feel entitled to like domestic, emotional and mental labor), they are in the wrong. The men are seen as the victims, while the women enduring the misogyny are the bad actors. This viewpoint leads to justification of a number of vile behaviors perpetuated by men – even those men that claim to support and love women.`
