---
layout: post
title: "Thoughts on "generative AI Art""
---
[Discovered](http://rolandtanglao.com/2020/07/29/p1-blogthis-checkvist-list-links-to-blog/): Sep 17, 2024 09:42 [Thoughts on "generative AI Art"](https://tante.cc/2023/11/10/thoughts-on-generative-ai-art/) <-- When is stuff created by humans or machines really art? --> **QUOTE**: `You can use computers and algorithms and systems to create art. To be honest I think humans can make art from anything because art is one mode of expressing and communicating aspects of our lived experiences, our feelings, our perspectives. But not every image, every sound a computer generates is art. ... We live in the crumbling ruins of a deadly economic system that has alienated us not just from one another but from seeing meaning in our work – even our own creative works. Why learn how to do a thing when a stochastic parrot trained on the works of the best people in that field can create a half-assed version for you for free? The output is good enough to be content. To be a thing that others can consume en passant and forget a millisecond after they saw it. Everything is about the output today, the thing that’s produced and “generative AI” makes production itself cheap as long as quality isn’t a factor. ... So we basically put every artists’ labor through the meat grinder in order to make a few idea guys feel special without ever having to learn a thing. And that is just so very sad. ... I’ve been getting back to playing the guitar lately. It was actually my plan for this year: To learn a thing to do just for the joy of doing it. Not to be productive or even good, not to try to impress people with it or fulfill some juvenile fantasy of what a successful or happy or popular person would do. I still suck badly. But it’s delightful.`
