---
layout: post
title: "Lenny Rachitsky:: Gmail - My podcast tech stack, workflows, and lessons—plus a giveaway!"
---
[Discovered](http://rolandtanglao.com/2020/07/29/p1-blogthis-checkvist-list-links-to-blog/): Mar 12, 2024 08:12 [Lenny Rachitsky:: Gmail - My podcast tech stack, workflows, and lessons—plus a giveaway!](https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/?ui=2&ik=4f6e764b0f&view=lg&permmsgid=msg-f:1793322620318011741&ser=1) <--- Mega overkill gear wise but here's the gear list (don't forget Riverside for recording and Descript for editing): **QUOTE**: `1. Microphone: Shure MV7 USB (same as I started with).... 2. Headphones: Sony MDR7506 (same as I started with). Lots of people like the Audio-Technica ATH-M30x as an alternative. ... 3. Camera: Canon EOS M50 Mark II for the body, and a Canon EF-M 22mm f2 lens, with a tripod to hold it all. Nothing too fancy. Reliable, affordable, and flexible. ... 4. Lights: Lights are shockingly essential for a great studio look. You’ll need three different lights: Keylight with soft box and stand. Hair light with stand. And a side light. ... 5. Teleprompter: This lets me look straight into the camera while talking. The rig is somewhat tricky to set up, but it’s easy to use once it’s up. Here’s what holds the camera, and here’s the screen it sits inside. I’m looking into getting a larger teleprompter, so I’ll update this with the links if/when I do that. ... 6. Keyboard: Logitech K380 Multi-Device Bluetooth Keyboard. You want this keyboard to be very quiet, so you can type during a recording. ... 7. Mouse: Logitech Signature M650 Wireless Mouse. Same advice as above. ... 8. Controls: This Elgato deck is so handy (and fun) for quickly muting, toggling DND, and opening apps during your recordings. ... 9. Adapters and such: Power your camera, connect your camera to your laptop, USB hub, HDMI cable, remote-controlled plugs.`
