---
layout: post
title: "Best Instant Tonkotsu? : r/ramen"
---
[Discovered](http://rolandtanglao.com/2020/07/29/p1-blogthis-checkvist-list-links-to-blog/): Nov 29, 2024 11:39 [Best Instant Tonkotsu? : r/ramen](https://www.reddit.com/r/ramen/comments/16v03hs/comment/k2qaxwz/) <--- i refuse to believe that instant is any good :-) but i'm 99% sure i'm wrong :-) --> **QUOTE**: `There's a Japanese instant ramen company called Marutai that makes a series of products that are all regional versions of popular ramen recipes, and 5 of them are tonkotsu. They're all incredible, easy to find outside of Japan, and in my opinion far superior to the Nissin Raoh Artificial Tonkotsu made in America, if that's the one you happen to have ordered (I find the artificial taste to be distractingly artificial, but I have sensitive tastebuds). If you got one of the Japanese Raoh versions, you'll be much better off. ... Anyway, here's the rundown of Marutai's tonkotsu products: ...* Hakata Nagahama Soy Sauce Tonkotsu - A basic and delicious soy-forward tonkotsu with thinner Hakata style noodles. A perfect beginner-level tonkotsu flavor. ... * Kagoshima Kurobuta Tonkotsu - A slightly stronger and more unique pork flavor, made from Kurobuta black pork, coupled with a nice amount of dried charred scallions. Nice oniony flavor and a rich pork-forward broth. ... * Kumamoto Black Garlic Oil Tonkotsu - My personal favorite of the bunch. A great punch of garlic flavor and oil with a rich broth. Seems to be the most popular flavor among Marutai fans as well. ... * Kurume Tonkotsu - An extremely strong pork flavor in this one, almost approaching a wild boar flavor rather than a typical pork one. I really like this one but I think it might be too gamey for some. Super unique flavor though if you're willing to give it a try. ... * Setouchi Lemon Tonkotsu - This one's kind of the dark horse oddball of the product line because I've never seen another lemon tonkotsu before, but it's delicious. A nice mild porkiness with some sweet and sour notes from the lemon makes this almost like eating a soup version of a piccata sauce. Pairs really well with milder proteins and black pepper. I have a friend who is addicted to this one and literally comes close to buying out Yamibuy's inventory when it comes back in stock. ... All of the above have excellent straight noodles (with the Hakata one having the thinnest and the 4 others being more medium gauged) and 2 servings per pack. Some Asian grocery stores will carry these and you can occasionally get them on Amazon as well. ... There's also Ichiran Tonkotsu Ramen, which is a shelf-stable version of what Ichiran serves in restaurants. It's very tasty but also very expensive per serving compared to other options, but if you wanted to splurge it's probably as close to restaurant-quality as you can get. I personally don't think it's worth the additional cost over Marutai. ... And finally, if you're interested in an animal-free option, Itsuki makes three extremely tasty tonkotsu varieties that are vegan but remarkably indistinguishable from actual pork tonkotsu in flavor. Also available at Asian grocery stores depending on where you live. `
