---
layout: post
title: "ME:: Broken record: until we get a sterilizing vaccine I don't think wearing a mask indoors is unreasonable especially in respiratory season; i also think we should have windows open (as we learned from the 1918 flu pandemic) and HEPA (and far UV-C if there is a central HVAC unit like a heat pump or furnace  if it really works) filtered air everywhere ; Julia Doubleday:: Beyond all reason - The Gauntlet"
---
[Discovered](http://rolandtanglao.com/2020/07/29/p1-blogthis-checkvist-list-links-to-blog/): Oct 25, 2025 16:02 (UTC) [ME:: Broken record: until we get a sterilizing vaccine I don't think wearing a mask indoors is unreasonable especially in respiratory season; i also think we should have windows open (as we learned from the 1918 flu pandemic) and HEPA (and far UV-C if there is a central HVAC unit like a heat pump or furnace  if it really works) filtered air everywhere ; Julia Doubleday:: Beyond all reason - The Gauntlet](https://www.thegauntlet.news/p/beyond-all-reason) <-- **QUOTE**: `"The demand that one mask at all times in public spaces is, I think, unreasonable.”...  few things about the full statement: first, vaccines do not prevent infection well, and within weeks of receiving a booster shot, they do not prevent infection at all. Therefore, while they serve public health by potentially alleviating some burden on local hospitals, they don’t slow the spread of COVID at the community level.  .... But Long COVID can happen to anyone. We keep saying it. Nobody listens. For convenience I continue to separate “those with Long COVID” who must avoid another infection from those without- who can afford some mystery number of infections. But it’s possible your next infection may disable you too. It is for yourself, as much as for others, that COVID is worth avoiding. The “unreasonable” of wearing a mask indoors does not compare to the “unreasonable” of Long COVID plus the “unreasonable” of scrambling to avoid another infection while the still-well-enough people sniff that doing anything to mitigate the virus is simply asking too much of them.`
