---
layout: post
title: "ME:: Amanda Wood used pixelsynth in her latest opening, (re)patterning! Gotta try it for my art! ; Olivia Jack:: .::::PIXELSYNTH::::."
---
[Discovered](http://rolandtanglao.com/2020/07/29/p1-blogthis-checkvist-list-links-to-blog/): Jun 24, 2025 15:26 [ME:: Amanda Wood used pixelsynth in her latest opening, (re)patterning! Gotta try it for my art! ; Olivia Jack:: .::::PIXELSYNTH::::.](https://ojack.xyz/PIXELSYNTH/) <-- See [Amanda Wood's and Val Loewen's  (re)patterning page on THIS gallery's website](https://thethisgallery.com/collections/) which I am sure will not last more than a year before it's taken down. **QUOTE**: `re(patterning) emerges from a place of re-imagining and unmaking through close looking and repetition in material practices. Val Loewen and Amanda Wood use this ongoing collaborative exploration to obscure and reveal experiences of otherness that can develop when self identifying within a normative culture. Considering the power of an illegible text, the work is intuitive, working to consider new ways of unknowing that makes space for divergence. ...Repeated actions – breaking, revealing, glitching, and rearranging – are at the core of an attempt to uncover an imagined sensory language that moves beyond the visual to navigate experiences words fail to describe. Representational images and mundane objects are abstracted into sound, texture, and pattern that engage with concepts of coded language and imagined narratives. ... re(patterning) is a continual process of unlearning perceptions of value and reframing connections to social and cultural environments.`
