---
layout: post
title: "ME:: tl;dr-ing: Ocaml single file activity pub or something :-) NLnet; #Seppo!"
---
[Discovered](http://rolandtanglao.com/2020/07/29/p1-blogthis-checkvist-list-links-to-blog/): Feb 23, 2026 15:38 (UTC) [ME:: tl;dr-ing: Ocaml single file activity pub or something :-) NLnet; #Seppo!](https://nlnet.nl/project/Seppo/) <-- **QUOTE**: `Posting and liking self reliantly and still have a life. #Seppo! empowers you to publish short texts and images to the internet as easily as using an online service but retain full agency and responsibility. What you publish is solely subject to public law. No 3rd parties hold a stake, nobody else imposes any rules on you. This is because you publish on your own property. Which is possible because housekeeping is no more than the known follow/unfollow/block/unblock content moderation of your own single account. You do that by yourself. There are no scripting engines or databases, no technical updates required. You can focus solely on the message to deliver. You build an online presence on your own digital property, robust for decades if you decide so. #Seppo! is built on mature web standards (e.g. ActivityPub), a european technology stack, inspectable plain-text storage, is security aware and decentralised. It is made for but not limited to off-the-shelf static webspace as offered by numerous vendors all over the EU. #Seppo! targets individuals and small organisations joining the #Fediverse with max. 10k followers, optionally cross-posting to the closed platforms.`
